The fall of the Western Roman Empire, also called the fall of the Roman Empire or the fall of Rome, was the loss of central political control in the Western Roman Empire, a process in which the Empire failed to enforce its rule, and its vast territory was divided among several successor polities. The Roman Empire lost the strengths that had allowed it to exercise effective control over its Western provinces; modern historians posit factors including the effectiveness and numbers of the army, the health and numbers of the Roman population, the strength of the economy, the competence of the emperors, the internal struggles for power, the religious changes of the period, and the efficiency of the civil administration. Increasing pressure from invading peoples outside Roman culture also contributed greatly to the collapse. Climatic changes and both endemic and epidemic disease drove many of these immediate factors. The reasons for the collapse are major subjects of the historiography of the ancient world and they inform much modern discourse on state failure.

As code gets more complex over time, the understanding of it equally diminishes. Althoug this may be a reflection of resilience and grit, it is much better represented the failure of a project with hours devoted towards it. But on the bright side, I now nearly fully understand how simple feedforward neural networks work (yay!).

It's time to move on... time to move on to the realm of cultured, civilized humans using libraries and frameworks... alas, how the fun has ended. But perhaps, sometime in the not-so-near future, I may be able to return to this hellhole of a project.

Adieu, broken neural network.
